.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH SUNXIFB __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
rpifb \- Xorg video driver for the Raspberry Pi
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qrpifb\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rpifb
is an __xservername__ driver for the Raspberry Pi, derived from the xf86-video-sunxifb
driver and from the
.B fbdev driver.
With regard to 2D graphics, currently it only supports sofware rendering.
However at least it tries to let the optimized code from the
.B pixman
library run at full speed without any unnecessary overhead. The recommended
framebuffer color depths are 16 (RGB565) and 24 (XRGB8888).
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The 
.B rpifb
driver supports all hardware where a framebuffer driver is available and
uses the os-specific submodule fbdevhw(__drivermansuffix__) to talk
to the kernel
device driver.  Currently a fbdevhw module is available for linux.
Additionally it is intended to use some of the integrated features 
from the Raspberry Pi such as DMA blitting.
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to
this driver.
.PP
For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the screen 
section of the config file.  The
.B sunxifb
driver can pick up the currently used video mode from the framebuffer 
driver and will use it if there are no video modes configured.
.PP
The following driver 
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qfbdev\*q \*q" string \*q
The framebuffer device to use. Default: /dev/fb0.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  Default: on.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qRotate\*q \*q" string \*q
Enable rotation of the display. The supported values are "CW" (clockwise,
90 degrees), "UD" (upside down, 180 degrees) and "CCW" (counter clockwise,
270 degrees). Implies use of the shadow framebuffer layer.   Default: off.
.TP
.BI "Option \*qAccelMethod\*q \*q" "string" \*q
Chooses between available acceleration architectures. Currently the
only supported acceleration architecture is
.B RPI.
It is currently only provided for future implementation and provides no additional acceleration
beyond the CPU optimizations. The default is
.B no 2D hardware acceleration.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
__xservername__(__appmansuffix__), __xconfigfile__(__filemansuffix__), Xserver(__appmansuffix__),
X(__miscmansuffix__), fbdevhw(__drivermansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Gerd Knorr, Michel D\(:anzer, Geert Uytterhoeven, Siarhei Siamashka, Harm Hanemaaijer
